adding a page for a new beta API (#5819)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/authen_mapping/_index.md

     -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>"
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "authn_mapping",
      "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
      "relationships": {
        "saml_assertion_attributes": {
          "data": {
            "id": 0,
            "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
          }
        },
        "roles": {
          "data": {
            "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
            "type": "roles"
          }
        }
      },
      "attributes": {
        "created_at": "timestamp",
        "created_by": "string",
        "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
        "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
        "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "timestamp",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {

>           "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
          "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>           "modified_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
          "modified_at": "timestamp",
```

        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Update mapping

Updates the AuthN Mapping `role`, `saml_assertion_attribute_id`, or both from a JSON body. Returns the updated AuthN Mapping.

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload |
|--------|--------------|------------------|
| `PATCH`  | `/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}`  | JSON       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`{UUID}`** [*required*, no default]:
  Replace `{UUID}` with the UUID of the AuthN Mapping you want to update.
* **`role_uuid`** [*required*]:
?
* **`attribute_key`** [*required*]:
?

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X PATCH \
         "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
         -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>" \
         -d '{
             "data": {
                 "type": "authn_mappings",
                 "attributes": {

>                       "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
                      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
```

                      "attribute_key": "string",
                      "attribute_value": "string"
                }
             }
         }'
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "created_at": "timestamp",
      "created_by": "string",
      "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",

>       "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
```

      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },
    "type": "authn_mappings",
    "id": "string",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {
          "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "timestamp",
          "modified_at": "string",

>           "uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
```

---
title: Federated Authentication to Role Mapping API
kind: documentation
beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "account_management/rbac/log_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "RBAC for Log Management"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Ask your customer success manager or <a href="/help">Datadog Support</a> to enable this feature.
</div>

If you are using Federated Authentication mechanisms, this API allows you to automatically map groups of users to roles in Datadog.

> **Note**: If you are a SAML user and you have been using the existing beta Federated Mapping mechanism (roles_v2_saml), you should transition to using this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you are a SAML user, and you have been using the existing beta Federated Mapping mechanism (`roles_v2_saml`), Datadog strongly recommends that you transition to using this API.
```

## Requests

All the API endpoints below can have two different host endpoints:

* If you are on the Datadog US site: `https://api.datadoghq.com/api/`
* If you are on the Datadog EU site: `https://api.datadoghq.eu/api/`

### Create a new Authentication mapping

> Create a new AuthN Mapping from json body. Returns the newly created AuthN Mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new AuthN Mapping from a JSON body. Returns the newly created AuthN Mapping.
```

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload |
|--------|--------------|------------------|
| `POST`  | `/v2/authn_mappings`  | JSON       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`role_uuid`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
  The Roles API can be used to create and manage Datadog roles, what global permissions they grant, and which users belong to them. When you create a Role, it is assigned a UUID. For more information about finding your `role_uuid`, see the [Role API documentation][1].
* **`attribute_key`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
 The `attribute_key` and the `attribute_value` are key/value pairs defined in their SAML assertions from their Identity Providers. You can define these for your own use case. For example, `attribute_key` could be `member-of` and the `attribute_value` could be `Development`.
* **`attribute_value`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
  The `attribute_key` and the `attribute_value` are key/value pairs defined in their SAML assertions from their Identity Providers. You can define these for your own use case. For example, `attribute_key` could be `member-of` and the `attribute_value` could be `Development`.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

> {{< code-block lang="bash" filename="roles.sh" >}}

Reviewer 2: This should probably be like the example for update which uses a curl

{�
  "type": "authnmapping",
  "data": {�
    "attributes": {�
      "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "attribute_key": "string",

>       "attribute_key": "string"

Reviewer 2: Should be `attribute_value`

    }
  }
}
{{< /code-block >}}

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholder with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="response.json" disable_copy="true" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {

>       "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
      "created_at": "datetime",
```

>       "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: These can be datetimes

>       "uuid": "10000000-abcd-efgh-ijkl-000000000000",

Reviewer 2: As per the most recent version of the authn_mapping_spec, there is no more `uuid` field, as it is double counted by the `id` field

      "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },

>     "type": "string",

Reviewer 2: type should be `authn_mappings`

    "id": "string",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {

>           "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: Should be an example uuid here

          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "string",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "string",
          "modified_at": "string",

>           "uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
```

          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {
              "id": "string",
              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,

>         "type": "authn_mappings",

Reviewer 2: type here should be `saml_assertion_attributes`

        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get all AuthN Mappings

Returns a list of AuthN Mappings

| Method | Endpoint path            | Required payload |
|--------|-------------------------|------------------|
| `GET`  | `/v2/authn_mappings` | optional queries       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`sort`** [*optional*, *default*=**yes**]:

>   Sort attribute and direction - `yes` sorts in descending order, `no` sorts in ascending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Sort attribute and direction—`yes` sorts in descending order, `no` sorts in ascending order.
```

* **`page_number`** [*optional*, *default*=**0**, *minimum*=**0**]:
  The page of results to return. 
* **`page_size`** [*optional*, *default*=**10**]:
  The number of results to return on each page.
* **`filter`** [*optional*, no default]:

>   Filter by tags as strings. For example, `Billing Users`.

Reviewer 2: 1. get_all query params are as follows
        1. Sort is the name of the field you want to sort by, if you want it to be ascending, you pass it in as a negative e.g "-created_at", default is ascending, e.g "created_at"
        2. page[number], default is 0, page number that a user requests
        3. page[size], default is 10, number of entries per page that a user requests
        4. filter, default is None, filter string that a user passes in

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X GET "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings" \
     -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>"
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "authn_mapping",

>       "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: should be an example uuid

      "relationships": {
        "saml_assertion_attributes": {
          "data": {
            "id": 0,
            "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
          }
        },
        "roles": {
          "data": {

>             "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: should be an example uuid

            "type": "roles"
          }
        }
      },
      "attributes": {

>         "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
        "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>         "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: Can also be timestamps

>         "uuid": "10000000-abcd-efgh-ijkl-000000000000",

Reviewer 2: This uuid actually isn't proper hex, something like `123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000` would probably work better.

>         "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
        "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
```

        "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {

>         "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: Same as above

        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "string",

>           "modified_at": "string",

Reviewer 2: Same as above

>           "uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
```

          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {

>               "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: Same as above

              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,

>         "type": "authn_mappings",

Reviewer 2: Type should also be saml_assertion_attributes

          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "page": {
      "total": 0,
      "page_number": 0,
      "page_size": 0
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get a specific AuthN Mapping

Returns a specific AuthN Mapping by UUID.

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload                           |
|--------|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `GET` | `/authn_mappings/{UUID}`  | URL parameter |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`{UUID}`** [*required*, no default]:
  Replace `{UUID}` with the UUID of the AuthN Mapping you want to view.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X GET "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
     -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>"
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {

>       "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
      "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>       "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: See above

>       "uuid": "10000000-abcd-efgh-ijkl-000000000000",

Reviewer 2: See above

>       "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
```

      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },

>     "type": "string",

Reviewer 2: should be "type: "authn_mappings"

>     "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: should be example uuid

    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {

>           "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: should be an example uuid

          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {

>         "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {

>           "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
          "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>           "modified_at": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

>           "uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Author: ```suggestion
          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
```

          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {

>               "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,

>         "type": "authn_mappings",

Reviewer 2: see above

        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Update mapping

Updates the AuthN Mapping `role`, `saml_assertion_attribute_id`, or both from a JSON body. Returns the updated AuthN Mapping.

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload |
|--------|--------------|------------------|
| `PATCH`  | `/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}`  | JSON       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`{UUID}`** [*required*, no default]:

>   Replace `{UUID}` with the UUID of the AuthN Mapping you want to update.

Reviewer 2: It also needs to be passed as the `id` for the request body, the new spec should show a good example for this

> * **`role_uuid`** [*required*, *default*=**?**]:

Author: ```suggestion
* **`role_uuid`** [*required*]:
```

?

> * **`attribute_key`** [*required*, *default*=**?**]:

Author: ```suggestion
* **`attribute_key`** [*required*]:
```

> ?

Reviewer 2: Defaults for update should be None

Some context for this:
If a user of the API passes a role_uuid we’ll update the role, if a user passes in BOTH an attribute_key and attribute_value, we’ll update the underlying saml_assertion_attribute, if you pass in only a PART of a saml_assertion_attribute, we will not update the saml_assertion_atttribute portion, if you pass in BOTH a role_uuid and an attribute key + attribute_value, we will update the underlying role and saml_assertion_attribute

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X PATCH \
         "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
         -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>" \
         -d '{
             "data": {

>                  "authn_mappings",

Reviewer 2: Should be `"type": "authn_mappings",`

>                  "attributes": {

Reviewer 2: as per the new authn_mapping spec, we require an `id` field, which is the id of the authn mapping being updated

                      "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
                      "attribute_key": "string",
                      "attribute_value": "string"
                }
             }
         }'
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {

>       "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
      "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>       "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

>       "uuid": "10000000-abcd-efgh-ijkl-000000000000",

Reviewer 2: see above

      "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },

>     "type": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

    "id": "string",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {

>           "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {

>         "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {

>           "created_at": "string",

Author: ```suggestion
          "created_at": "timestamp",
```

>           "modified_at": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

          "uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {

>               "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: see above

              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,

>         "type": "authn_mappings",

Reviewer 2: see above

---
title: Federated Authentication to Role Mapping API
kind: documentation
beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "account_management/rbac/log_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "RBAC for Log Management"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> The Federated Authentication to Role Mapping API is currently in closed beta. Functionality and performance might not be working quite like we want it to and we reserve the right to change the functionality at any time without warning. Ask your customer success manager or <a href="/help">Datadog Support</a> to enable this feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Federated Authentication to Role Mapping API is currently in closed beta. Functionality and performance may not be ideal, and we reserve the right to change the functionality at any time without warning. Ask your customer success manager or <a href="/help">Datadog Support</a> to enable this feature.
```

* **`attribute_value`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
  The `attribute_key` and the `attribute_value` are key/value pairs defined in their SAML assertions from their Identity Providers. You can define these for your own use case. For example, `attribute_key` could be `member-of` and the `attribute_value` could be `Development`.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X POST \
         "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
         -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>" \
         -d '{
             "data": {
                 "type": "authn_mappings",
                 "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
                 "attributes": {
                      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
                      "attribute_key": "string",
                      "attribute_value": "string"
                }
             }
         }'
```
{{< /code-block >}}

> Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholder with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].
```

      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {
          "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "string",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "2019-11-04 17:41:29.015504",
          "modified_at": "2019-11-06 17:41:29.015504",
          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {
              "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655441000",
              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 6,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get all AuthN Mappings

Returns a list of AuthN Mappings

| Method | Endpoint path            | Required payload |
|--------|-------------------------|------------------|
| `GET`  | `/v2/authn_mappings` | optional queries       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`sort`** [*optional*, *default*=**+**]:

>   Sort attribute and direction— defaults to ascending order, `-` sorts in decending order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Sort attribute and direction—defaults to ascending order, `-` sorts in descending order.
```

kind: documentation
beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "account_management/rbac/log_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "RBAC for Log Management"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Ask your customer success manager or <a href="/help">Datadog Support</a> to enable this feature.
</div>

If you are using Federated Authentication mechanisms, this API allows you to automatically map groups of users to roles in Datadog.

**Note**: If you are a SAML user, and you have been using the existing beta Federated Mapping mechanism (`roles_v2_saml`), Datadog strongly recommends that you transition to using this API.

## Requests

All the API endpoints below can have two different host endpoints:

* If you are on the Datadog US site: `https://api.datadoghq.com/api/`
* If you are on the Datadog EU site: `https://api.datadoghq.eu/api/`

### Create a new Authentication mapping

Create a new AuthN Mapping from a JSON body. Returns the newly created AuthN Mapping.

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload |
|--------|--------------|------------------|
| `POST`  | `/v2/authn_mappings`  | JSON       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`id`** [*required*, *default*=none]:

>   The UUID of the `authinmap` being updated. For more information about finding your UUID, see the [Role API documentation][1].

Reviewer 2: `id` is not expected for create request payloads and passing it in will actually return an error

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X POST \
         "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
         -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>" \
         -d '{
             "data": {
                 "type": "authn_mappings",
                 "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
                 "attributes": {
                      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
                      "attribute_key": "string",
                      "attribute_value": "string"
                }
             }
         }'
```
{{< /code-block >}}

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholder with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="response.json" disable_copy="true" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "created_at": "timestamp",

>       "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: Not your fault but this is about to change again actually 😞. The `created_by` field used to be user id's (which were integers), but to match the other new rbac api's this will become a `uuid`. So string isn't technically wrong, but probably best to do like we've done with the other example uuid's and put something that matches those :)

Reviewer 2: Actually, on second thought, might have to get back to you on this one. Another option would be to remove the field altogether, since it isn't entirely necessary to be there on every request. Will consult with the team to see what the best option here is going forward.

      "role_uuid": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },
    "type": "authn_mappings",
    "id": "string",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {
          "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {

>         "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: This can be an example uuid

        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "string",

>           "modified_at": "string",

Reviewer 2: These can be example timestamps like "2019-11-04 17:41:29.015504"

>           "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",

Reviewer 2: Not your fault but changes are pending to remove the uuid field from roles resources, meaning we would have to delete `uuid` values from any type role response bodies here. These hasn't gone live quite yet, but since we want users to use the `id` field instead (since those are always equal to one another), I think we might want to remove this here preemptively

          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {

>               "id": "string",

Reviewer 2: also probably want example uuid here

              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {

>           "id": 6,

Reviewer 2: These id's should match

          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get all AuthN Mappings

Returns a list of AuthN Mappings

| Method | Endpoint path            | Required payload |
|--------|-------------------------|------------------|
| `GET`  | `/v2/authn_mappings` | optional queries       |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`sort`** [*optional*, *default*=**yes**]:

>   Sort attribute and direction—`yes` sorts in descending order, `no` sorts in ascending order.

Reviewer 2: The sort param looks something like this 
api/v2/authn_mappings?sort=created_at

Where by default, attributes are sorted ascending. To do descending, you just pass a negative sign. So
api/v2/authn_mappings?sort=-created_at
would sort in the descending direction

* **`page_number`** [*optional*, *default*=**0**, *minimum*=**0**]:
  The page of results to return. 

> * **`page_size`** [*optional*, *default*=**10**]:

Reviewer 2: These should be `page[number]` and `page[size]` respectively.

  The number of results to return on each page.
* **`filter`** [*optional*, no default]:
  Filter by tags as strings. For example, `Billing Users`.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X GET "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings" \
     -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>"
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "authn_mapping",
      "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
      "relationships": {
        "saml_assertion_attributes": {
          "data": {
            "id": 0,
            "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
          }
        },
        "roles": {
          "data": {
            "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
            "type": "roles"
          }
        }
      },
      "attributes": {
        "created_at": "timestamp",

>         "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: See above

>         "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",

Reviewer 2: Uuid is no longer returned in response values To get the uuid of an authn mapping users can use the top level `id` field

        "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
        "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {

>         "id": "timestamp",

Reviewer 2: should be an example uuid not a timestamp

        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "timestamp",
          "modified_at": "timestamp",

>           "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",

Reviewer 2: See above comment on removing

          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {
              "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {

>           "id": 6,

Reviewer 2: These 2 id's should always match, since they refer to the same resource.

          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "page": {
      "total": 0,
      "page_number": 0,
      "page_size": 0
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get a specific AuthN Mapping

Returns a specific AuthN Mapping by UUID.

| Method | Endpoint path | Required payload                           |
|--------|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `GET` | `/authn_mappings/{UUID}`  | URL parameter |

##### ARGUMENTS

* **`{UUID}`** [*required*, no default]:
  Replace `{UUID}` with the UUID of the AuthN Mapping you want to view.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X GET "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
     -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>"
```

Replace the `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` and `<YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>` placeholders with the corresponding [API and application keys for your organization][1].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Response" %}}

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "created_at": "timestamp",

>       "created_by": "string",

Reviewer 2: See above

      "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },
    "type": "authn_mappings",
    "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {
          "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "timestamp",

>           "modified_at": "string",

Reviewer 2: See above

          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {
              "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,

>           "attribute_key": "string",

Reviewer 2: See above

* **`attribute_key`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
 The `attribute_key` and the `attribute_value` are key/value pairs defined in their SAML assertions from their Identity Providers. You can define these for your own use case. For example, `attribute_key` could be `member-of` and the `attribute_value` could be `Development`.
* **`attribute_value`** [*required*, *default*=none]:
  The `attribute_key` and the `attribute_value` are key/value pairs defined in their SAML assertions from their Identity Providers. You can define these for your own use case. For example, `attribute_key` could be `member-of` and the `attribute_value` could be `Development`.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Example" %}}

```sh
curl -X PATCH \
         "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v2/authn_mappings/{UUID}" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -H "DD-API-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
         -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <YOUR_DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>" \
         -d '{
             "data": {
                 "type": "authn_mappings",
                 "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
                 "attributes": {

>                       "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",

Reviewer 2: Gotta swap these, the top level `id` should be the id referring to the authn mapping, and the `role_uuid` should belong in the attributes

      "role_uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655445555",
      "saml_assertion_attribute_id": 0
    },
    "type": "authn_mappings",
    "id": "string",
    "relationships": {
      "saml_assertion_attributes": {
        "data": {
          "id": 0,
          "type": "saml_assertion_attributes"
        }
      },
      "roles": {
        "data": {
          "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "type": "roles"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "included": [
    {
      "data": {
        "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
        "type": "roles",
        "attributes": {
          "created_at": "timestamp",
          "modified_at": "string",
          "uuid": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
          "name": "string"
        },
        "relationships": {
          "data": [
            {
              "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000",
              "type": "permissions"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "data": {
        "id": 0,
        "type": "saml_assertion_attributes",
        "attributes": {
          "id": 6,
          "attribute_key": "string",
          "attribute_value": "string"

>         }

Reviewer 2: See above comments, similar changes should be made here
